Add docs (#1)
2i2c-org/hub-user-image-template: README.md

# hub-user-image-template

This is a template repository for creating dedicated user images for our hubs.

## About this template repository

> * It enables [jupyterhub/repo2docker-action](https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker-action).
> This GitHub action builds a Docker image using the contents of this repo and pushes it to the [Quay.io](https://quay.io/) registry.
> 
> * It provides an example of a `environment.yml` conda configuration file.
> This file can be used to list all the conda packages that need to be installed by `repo2docker` in your environment.
> The `repo2docker-action` will update the [base repo2docker](https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/blob/HEAD/repo2docker/buildpacks/conda/environment.yml)
> conda environment with the packages listed in this `environment.yml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It enables [jupyterhub/repo2docker-action](https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker-action).
  This GitHub action builds a Docker image using the contents of this repo and pushes it to the [Quay.io](https://quay.io/) registry.

* It provides an example of a `environment.yml` conda configuration file.
  This file can be used to list all the conda packages that need to be installed by `repo2docker` in 
  your environment.
  The `repo2docker-action` will update the [base repo2docker] (https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/blob/HEAD/repo2docker/buildpacks/conda/environment.yml)
  conda environment with the packages listed in this `environment.yml` file.
```

TODO: add screenshot with where the secrets are

### 3. Update repo2docker-action config

Edit [build.yaml](https://github.com/2i2c-org/hub-user-image-template/blob/main/.github/workflows/build.yaml#L24-L25) and:

- uncomment the IMAGE_NAME option
- replace `<quay-username>/<repository-name>` with the info of the `quay.io` repository created at step 2

### 4. Define the environment wanted

* Modify [the environment.yml](https://github.com/2i2c-org/hub-user-image-template/blob/main/environment.yml) file and add all the packages you want installed in the conda environment. Note that repo2docker already installs [this list](https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/blob/HEAD/repo2docker/buildpacks/conda/environment.yml) of packages. More about what you can do with `environment.yml`, can be found in the [repo2docker docs](https://repo2docker.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config_files.html#environment-yml-install-a-conda-environment).

* Commit the changes made to `environment.yml`.

* Create a pull request with this commit, or push it dirrectly to the `main` branch.

> * Merging the PR above or directly pushing the commit to the `main` branch, will kick off the GitHub Action to build and push the container image. Wait for this action to finish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you merge the PR above or directly push the commit to the `main` branch, the GitHub Action will automatically build and push the container image. Wait for this action to finish.
```

TODO: add screenshot with where the actions tab is.

### 5. Build and push the image of the repository

Images generated by this action are automatically tagged with both latest and <SHA> corresponding to the relevant commit SHA on GitHub. Both tags are pushed to the Docker registry specified by the user. If an existing image with the latest tag already exists in your registry, this Action attempts to pull that image as a cache to reduce uncessary build steps.
TODO: add screnshot and link to an quay.io repository + tags example

### 6. Connect the hub with this user image

* Go to the list of image tags on `quay.io`, and find the tag of the last push. This is not the latest tag but is usually under it. Use this to construct your image name - `quay.io/<quay-username>/<repository-name>:<tag>`.

TODO: add a screenshot

> * Open the Configurator for the hub (you need to be logged in as an admin).

Reviewer: we should link to configurator docs in `pilot` here as well (https://pilot.2i2c.org/en/latest/admin/howto/configurator.html)

  This file can be used to list all the conda packages that need to be installed by `repo2docker` in 
  your environment.
  The `repo2docker-action` will update the [base repo2docker](https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/blob/HEAD/repo2docker/buildpacks/conda/environment.yml)
  conda environment with the packages listed in this `environment.yml` file.

**Note:**
A complete list of possible configuration files that can be added to the repository and be used by repo2docker to build the Docker image, can be found in the [repo2docker docs](https://repo2docker.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config_files.html#configuration-files).

## How to create and use a custom user image for your hub

### 1. Use this template

Create a new repository from `hub-user-image-template` repository, by clicking the *Use this template* button located at the top of this project's GitHub page.

### 2. Hook the new repository to [quay.io](https://quay.io/)

Follow all the instructions (except the last step), provided by the [repo2docker-action docs](https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker-action#push-image-to-quayio) on how to allow the built image to be pushed to [quay.io](https://quay.io/).

> At end, you should have:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you have completed these steps, you should have:
```

* a quay.io repository of the form `quay.io/<quay-username>/<repository-name>`
* two GitHub secrets **QUAY_USERNAME** (the user name of the `quay.io` robot account) and **QUAY_PASSWORD** (the password of the `quay.io` robot account) set on your newly created GitHub repository.

  ![Secrets](images/secrets.png)

### 3. Update repo2docker-action config

> Edit [build.yaml](https://github.com/2i2c-org/hub-user-image-template/blob/main/.github/workflows/build.yaml#L24-L25) and:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Edit lines 24 and 25 of [build.yaml](https://github.com/2i2c-org/hub-user-image-template/blob/main/.github/workflows/build.yaml#L24-L25) and:
```

* uncomment the `IMAGE_NAME` option

> * replace `<quay-username>/<repository-name>` with the info of the `quay.io` repository created at step 2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* replace `<quay-username>/<repository-name>` with the info of the `quay.io` repository created at step 2
* Commit the changes you've made to `build.yaml`
```

### 4. Define the environment wanted

* Modify [the environment.yml](https://github.com/2i2c-org/hub-user-image-template/blob/main/environment.yml) file and add all the packages you want installed in the conda environment. Note that repo2docker already installs [this list](https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/blob/HEAD/repo2docker/buildpacks/conda/environment.yml) of packages. More about what you can do with `environment.yml`, can be found in the [repo2docker docs](https://repo2docker.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config_files.html#environment-yml-install-a-conda-environment).

* Commit the changes made to `environment.yml`.

* Create a pull request with this commit, or push it dirrectly to the `main` branch.

* If you merge the PR above or directly push the commit to the `main` branch, the GitHub Action will automatically build and push the container image. Wait for this action to finish.

![Actions](images/action.png)

### 5. Build and push the image of the repository

> Images generated by this action are automatically tagged with both latest and `<SHA>` corresponding to the relevant commit SHA on GitHub. Both tags are pushed to the Docker registry specified by the user. If an existing image with the *latest* tag already exists in your registry, this Action attempts to pull that image as a cache to reduce uncessary build steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Images generated by this action are automatically tagged with both latest and `<SHA>` corresponding to the relevant commit SHA on GitHub. Both tags are pushed to the image registry specified by the user. If an existing image with the *latest* tag already exists in your registry, this Action attempts to pull that image as a cache to reduce uncessary build steps.
```

Since we're explicitly not using Docker Hub? I realise it's a Docker image, but I wondered if this terminology would be confusing for some who aren't as familiar with the differences.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Images generated by this action are automatically tagged with both latest and `<SHA>` corresponding to the relevant commit SHA on GitHub. Both tags are pushed to the Docker registry specified by the user. If an existing image with the *latest* tag already exists in your registry, this Action attempts to pull that image as a cache to reduce unnecessary build steps.
```

Typo
